Al: Hello, farmers, and welcome to another episode of the harvest season.
Al: My name is Al.
Chelsea: And my name is Chelsea.
Al: And we are here today to talk about cottage core games.
Al: Oh, woo.
Chelsea: Woohoo.
Al: Welcome back, Chelsea.
Chelsea: Thank you.
Al: Thank you for joining me again.
Chelsea: My pleasure.
Al: We will try not to cry as much this episode.
Chelsea: No. Slightly less emotional game.
Al: Little bit, little bit.
Al: Yeah, Chelsea passed on her interview and so she's back for another episode.
Al: That's how it works.
Chelsea: Oh, thank you.
Chelsea: I was not fed to the wolf.
Al: This episode...
Al: Oh, yeah.
Al: This episode we are going to talk about bistro.
Al: We came out a couple weeks ago, I think.
Al: I've been playing it on Game Pass and I think you bought it off Stephen...
Chelsea: Yeah, there was a sale on steam, so it was bistro and it came with their other game.
Chelsea: Uh, the red lamb for a bundle.
Al: Ah.
Al: So we're going to talk about that.
Al: We have some news, not a lot of news, which is a bit weird because we're recording this, what, 5 days after we originally planned and there's still barely any news.
Al: Don't know why nobody's nobody's doing anything just now.
Al: Come on, give us some news.
Chelsea: Give us something.
Chelsea: Yeah, hard.
Al: But we've got a little bit.
Al: We talk about that.
Al: But 1st of all, Chelsea, what have you been up to?
Chelsea: Uh, so it was Canada Day a few years ago and everything was a bust because of crazy storms with hail and half the city flooded.
Al: Oh.
Al: I wooed too quickly.
Chelsea: Um, our fireworks went on, but pretty much every other fireworks were cancelled or moved.
Chelsea: Um, But yeah, I just been outside with the kids.
Chelsea: It's summertime now and they're in day camp this week.
Chelsea: Most of them are in day camp this week and then, yeah, spending lots of time swimming with friends and just enjoying the weather.
Al: Fair enough, and and B, and and having lost lost the football as well, you're in the camp of no longer being in the tournament.
Chelsea: How about and playing bistro?
Chelsea: Yes.
Chelsea: No, that was, that was a crazy last game though.
Al: I can't say I watched it because that would pretend that would make it sound like I cared about football.
Chelsea: No.
Chelsea: I was told Kevin told me, he's like, don't even mention football.
Chelsea: I was like, okay, I won't.
Al: What is this?
Chelsea: Give me the heads up.
Al: People giving advice on how to podcast with me behind the scenes.
Chelsea: Oh.
Al: They it to my face, Kevin.
Chelsea: Yeah, Kevin.
Al: I have also been playing bistro, obviously.
Al: talk about that, but I've also been playing Rhythm Heaven Groove.
Chelsea: Yeah.
Al: That's the new rhythm Heaven game.
Al: So it just came out last Wednesday, I think.
Chelsea: Okay.
Al: So I haven't had a huge amount of time in it, but I played it a little bit.
Al: And so far, it is exactly what you'd expect a rhythm heaven game to be.
Al: So it's it's good.
Chelsea: Hmm.
Al: I enjoy it.
Al: I haven't got a chance to try.
Al: There's a new mode in it, which is like a combat mode.
Al: I haven't had a chance to try that out yet.
Chelsea: Oh, interesting.
Al: I've just been playing through the main stuff, but yeah, enjoying it so far.
Al: Have you played any rhythm heaven games?
Chelsea: The closest I've gotten was like Taiyo Drummaster.
Al: Ah.
Chelsea: Or whatever that game was years ago.
Al: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Chelsea: Yeah, no, but is it a long game, do you think, or?
Al: No, I don't I don't think so.
Al: I mean, it is what you put into it, right?
Al: Like, um, if you I suspect if you play through it and then never play it again, then you're going to get maybe, you know, an hour or 2 of gameplay, but like, I don't think that that's what most people are doing with that game.
Al: But yeah, I don't know.
Chelsea: Okay.
Chelsea: Fun.
Al: We'll see.
Al: I've not got to the end yet, so I can't give you an idea.
Chelsea: Do you find it?
Chelsea: Do you find this kind of peaceful?
Chelsea: Like at the end of the day, you just want to do something predictable?
Al: I'm not sure peaceful is the right word.
Chelsea: Okay.
Al: because obviously, you know, you've got to get the timing, but I do enjoy the...
Al: I've always enjoyed rhythm games ever since Guitar Hero came out.
Chelsea: Oh my god, don't even start me on guitar hero.
Chelsea: Oh, I loved it.
Al: In what way?
Al: Okay.
Chelsea: Oh, loved rock band, guitar hero, all of that.
Al: Yeah, yes.
Al: No, I played many, many guitar heroes, enjoyed it a lot.
Al: I sometimes go back and try and get back into it, but I think it's difficult because it's not on like a modern console, right?
Al: So I'm booting up my PS2 connecting it up to the TV to play it, which is obviously at a lot of effort.
Chelsea: Yeah, we had a,
Chelsea: We had all the equipment at one point, but we just couldn't calibrate it properly and then, uh, we moved and we didn't want to bring the whole drum set with us.
Chelsea: But now we never missing it.
Chelsea: So we're trying to find it somewhere.
Al: Yeah.
Al: Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, for sure, for sure.
Al: All right, should we talk about some news?
Al: First up, Dolok Town have announced that their one.
Al: 0 is coming on the 6th of August.
Al: So maybe this is finally time for me to play it because it's been on my list of, I kind of want to play this for quite a while, but I've not actually got ready.
Chelsea: Maybe.
Chelsea: Is that like the town from Shrek, Doolock Town?
Al: I hadn't noticed that.
Al: I guess it is similar, yeah.
Al: Definitely not very Shrekly.
Chelsea: No.
Al: Um, so yeah, they've they've listed a bunch of stuff that's new in the full release, but obviously if you've not been playing that that won't do much to you.
Al: They have said that the price is going to increase.
Al: So guess it's time to buy it.
Chelsea: Oh, okay.
Chelsea: Pressure's on.
Al: Yeah, they haven't said when it's going to increase.
Al: But obviously in the next month, because you said before.
Chelsea: Oh, okay.
Al: Next up, Cosy Sanctuary.
Al: Have announced a new update and they are including new animals.
Al: Kakapos?
Al: Is that how Kakapos, iguanas, foxes, goats, and pandas.
Chelsea: Cacapos.
Al: I refuse to see bears.
Chelsea: Oh.
Al: They say panda beers.
Chelsea: Panda bears.
Al: I refuse to see.
Al: refuse to say panda bears, just pandas or giant pandas, if you will.
Al: They're not panda bears, no bears.
Chelsea: Can't be 2 things 2 of the same thing.
Chelsea: I looked at this game and I think it would distract me too much to just have it on.
Al: Hmm.
Al: Yeah.
Chelsea: I don't know if other people would feel the same way, but that would take up all my concentration.
Al: Yeah, I think these these types of games.
Al: This is, so for listeners, this is a, this is a rusties like, uh, so there's, there's lots, lots of games like this, I think, for certain people, these games are just very dangerous.
Al: They both. Oh, okay.
Chelsea: That's what I always hope neopets would be, like have them on the have them on the desktop and you can just kind of passively feed them or whatever, but I'm probably for my own productivity, that was like a good call to not have it like that.
Al: Yeah.
Al: Were you a big neo petter?
Chelsea: I love neopets.
Chelsea: And then just like every other person, my account got hacked.
Chelsea: Apparently, there's like 80% of the neopet hacking is from one person.
Chelsea: And they have 1000000000s and 1000000000s of neo points and I tried to get into my childhood one and it was just pillaged.
Al: Wow.
Chelsea: Like, I had the rare ones and all, I don't know, the black market for Neopets is actually crazy.
Al: Yeah.
Al: Interestingly, my wife, Rona, she still plays Neopet.
Chelsea: Is it from the same account or has she started over as an adult?
Al: I think it is the new I think it's the same account, yeah.
Chelsea: Oh my goodness, wow.
Al: Yeah.
Chelsea: That's impressive.
Al: They've also, this is Cosy Sanctuary, not Neopets.
Al: They've also added 2 different colours for each animal.
Al: So they say, so your sanctuary is more colourful.
Al: I'm not really sure that's what we need in a game that could already be distracting is having more colours that feels quite...
Chelsea: You got your shiny animals now?
Al: Yeah, I suspect it's just you choose the colour rather than it's, you know, having to find it.
Al: I don't know.
Al: But, Mm-hmm.
Chelsea: That would distract me even more like, ooh, am I going to get the variant?
Al: Yeah, yeah, I don't think we need shiny hunting in a rusty lake.
Chelsea: And cosy sanctuary.
Al: They've also added UI scaling, so you can change the size of it.
Chelsea: Oh.
Al: And our final piece of news.
Al: I told you there wasn't very much.
Al: Our final piece of news is gaucho and the grasslands.
Al: I have announced a new demo, so it is more up to date with the game.
Al: They say completely refreshed.
Al: This new demo is the best introduction yet to the world of gaucho.
Al: Explore, the grasslands, meet charming characters, care for your animals, and experience, the beginning of this heartwarming adventure before diving into the full game.
Al: Best of all, once you purchase the game, your progress will carry over to the full version, allowing you to continue your journey exactly where you left off.
Chelsea: Oh, I love that.
Chelsea: I like when demos do that and you don't have to just start over.
Al: Yeah, agreed.
Al: All right, that's the news.
Al: So we are going to talk about bistro.
Al: It's probably a good thing that there's not a huge amount of news this episode because sometimes when we can get quite deep into these games and from hearing some stuff from Chelsea over the last week.
Al: I wouldn't be surprised if we get quite deep and into the weeds here.
Chelsea: Don't give it away.
Chelsea: Oh, come on.
Al: Well, I didn't say which way around.
Al: I didn't say whether that would be good or bad.
Chelsea: No, well no, that's fair.
Al: So I like to give a little bit of a description of a game before we get into it.
Al: So I would describe bistro as, um, uh, Farming slash cooking game, where your cooking affects a rogue light battle with cards, battle, was it, rogue like battle, I don't know how to describe it.
Chelsea: Mm-hmm.
Al: A roguelike adventure, RPG aspect of the game where you battle creatures and continue on your journey, uh, kind of.
Chelsea: venturing mission.
Al: It's really, I think this is a really hard game to explain in one sentence.
Al: Do you want to try, Chelsea?
Chelsea: Yeah.
Al: See if you can explain it in one sentence.
Chelsea: Nope.
Chelsea: No, I cannot.
Chelsea: Uh, it's basically 33 games in one game.
Chelsea: Uh, like, I, I say that with love, but there's no way to summarise it simply.
Al: Yeah.
Chelsea: Because everything influences everything.
Al: The.
Al: The blurb on steam is bistro is a cosy culinary adventure where the fate of the world rests on what's for dinner.
Al: farm and gather fresh ingredients, tackle cooking mini games, and create tasty recipes to fuel the caretakers for deck building battles as they seek to save the world.
Chelsea: Well, even they couldn't do it in one sentence.
Al: Yeah, yeah.
Al: Okay.
Al: Well, before we get into the details, uh, let's quickly go, Chelsea, how much have you played this game?
Chelsea: I have completed it 100%.
Al: Wow.
Chelsea: Every achievement.
Chelsea: Um, and I think I was at, well.
Al: So I guess you liked the game then.
Chelsea: I'm nothing if not thorough.
Chelsea: Um, you know what?
Chelsea: I wouldn't I wouldn't have finished it if I hated it.
Chelsea: But I think honestly, about 10 hours of that was me not understanding the combat.
Al: Hmm, yeah, yeah.
Chelsea: Um, and there's there's nowhere to practice and the stakes for losing is high.
Al: Mm-hmm.
Chelsea: Um, in terms of, I don't know how far you want to get into right here, but in terms of you, if you lose, you lose all your ingredients.
Al: Yeah, we'll get, well, let's, we'll get to that when we get to it, I think, um, but that's, that's, that's fair.
Chelsea: Yeah.
Al: I mean, we've hit another of the check checkbox of Al accidentally plays a rogue like game.
Al: Um, because this happens far too.
Al: It's a rolling, a rolling, continuing joke on this podcast that I keep playing games and accidentally, it turns out that they're roguelikes.
Al: I will say, I think, I'm not going to go so far as to say that I think this game is great.
Chelsea: stumbling into them.
Al: Like, okay, I'm not gonna go so far as to say that I enjoyed this game.
Al: Let's put it that way.
Al: But I think this got close to being something that I could enjoy.
Al: Um, I guess for context.
Chelsea: Okay.
Al: I'm not a huge fan of rogue likes at all, but I did, have you ever played Cult of the Lamb?
Chelsea: Uh, no, but I've heard things about it.
Al: Yeah, so so it's it's kind of like a rogue.
Al: It's kind of in some ways similar to this, um, in that you have your like area where you're you're building a village and then you go out to battle and you gather things and come back.
Al: And I think that aspect works quite well as part of the larger game, where you have your village where everything is safe and you go out to gather things, and if you die, when you're out, you lose what you have, what you were gathering, what you were gathering.
Chelsea: Okay.
Al: I think that is kind of the best balance I've found.
Al: I think the problem here, which we'll get into in detail later on, but I think the problem here is I just don't like the combat in this game, right?
Al: I think if I liked how the combat worked and I and I enjoyed that part of it, then I think I would like this game a lot more.
Chelsea: Okay.
Chelsea: You see, I liked the combat once I understood it.
Al: Hmm, interesting.
Chelsea: The day-to-day stuff in the game could not care less.
Al: Oh, interesting.
Al: Okay, well let's let's let's start off with that then because so this game is is set into like 3 roughly 3 parts of the day.
Chelsea: Okay.
Al: If we get too in detail in this, it will turn out that that's nonsense, but let's kind of, it's kind of 3 parts of the day.
Al: So let's start off with the morning.
Al: And this is the, the, the, this is the bit that I enjoyed.
Al: So this is where your farming is, right?
Chelsea: Okay, okay, interesting.
Al: So you're you're in this village, you are a... Fox?
Al: Is he meant to be a fox?
Chelsea: I think you're a fox.
Al: I don't know if they ever actually explicitly say what you are, but he looks like a fox.
Chelsea: box with an apron and stick legs.
Al: Yeah.
Al: So, yes, yeah, you are bipedal fox, and you are in this village's gated village, which is you learn very quickly on is gated because there are horrors beyond the gate, beyond the walls.
Al: And so you...
Chelsea: Horror is beyond our comprehension.
Al: Yep.
Al: So you are safe in this village and you are the, well, you're taking over the local, the restaurant, which, you know, we might not sure how far we're going to go into the story, but let's start with that.
Chelsea: Well, you're safe because there's a guy blocking the door.
Chelsea: So that's the full proof.
Al: Yeah.
Chelsea: There's one guy at the door.
Al: Yeah, who is very bad at keeping people out.
Al: Um, So you, uh, your job is to uh, tend to the farm, um, your, your gathering ingredients for running a restaurant.
Al: So let's talk about the gathering first.
Al: So there's a bunch of stuff that's just kind of like growing around.
Al: so you can like grab like grubs, which you use for feeding your animals.
Al: There's random herbs and stuff like that growing around the place.
Al: Um, and then your farm is kind of like a, an extension of that.
Chelsea: Yeah.
Al: is kind of, it's pretty simple farming as far as farming games go.
Al: You have bathtubs, which you are growing plants in.
Al: You've got rice, you've got a bunch of most of them tend to be like fantasy type ingredients, but there is stuff like rice and was it fiery tomatoes?
Al: I can't remember the names of these things, but there's like different vegetables that you grow in these bathtubs.
Chelsea: Yeah.
Chelsea: And the running carrots.
Al: Yeah, yeah.
Al: So the farming is, there's not a huge amount to say.
Al: It's quite low low key.
Al: There's like you're not going to be setting up as in many farming games like 500 plots.
Al: You know, you've got, you start off with 2 and then you're, it's quite expensive to add more.
Al: So I think I got up to like six.
Al: I don't know what the maximum is above that.
Chelsea: Uh, the maximum was 8.
Al: Okay, right.
Chelsea: So you're almost there.
Al: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Al: So not much, much more than that.
Al: So it's not like in Stardew where you're, you know, trying to cover your entire land with farming plots and it takes you 3 hours to do everything.
Al: Here, it's like you've got 6 bathtubs, you go down, you take what's harvest, harvestable, and then you water them, and you're done in about 10 seconds.
Chelsea: Oh.
Al: It's pretty, pretty low stakes farming.
Chelsea: Did you get to the point where the birds water your crops for you?
Al: No, I did not.
Al: not.
Al: You saying there's more automation that I didn't get to?
Al: God.
Chelsea: The only automation, really, is the birds water your crops for you.
Al: Oh, well.
Al: I missed that.
Chelsea: And okay.
Al: I mean, it's also like that is such small automation in a game where that takes you barely any time.
Chelsea: Yeah.
Al: Like you're removing 8 clicks from your day.
Chelsea: Yeah, and you don't even need to, when you aim to water, you don't even need to aim at the seat, just like in the general vicinity.
Al: Yeah.
Al: You walk up, you press A and it does it.
Al: So yeah, the farming's pretty, pretty standard, but you also have a bunch of different animals as well.
Chelsea: Yeah.
Chelsea: Um.
Al: So I am not going to remember any of the names of these animals.
Al: I don't know if you've got them in the top of your head.
Chelsea: Okay, so the cat...
Chelsea: Uh, the cows are just cow, K-A-O-O, I believe.
Al: Mm-hmm.
Chelsea: Um, and then the lizards are like spinoots, I believe, that are in the river.
Chelsea: Um, they give you the tails that you feed them the lily pads.
Al: Oh, yeah.
Al: Yes.
Chelsea: And then, um, the 2 cans.
Chelsea: I can't remember their name.
Chelsea: Uh, and then there's the fenpires, which are these fenic fox vampires with like long teeth that are really cute.
Chelsea: But you can't you can't really interact with them.
Al: Oh, I haven't unlocked them.
Chelsea: They only come at night.
Chelsea: And you feed them a treat and then they like, they shave down their teeth with a treat and then the next morning you just pick them up and you use them for like treats for your chicken.
Al: All right, okay, okay, okay.
Al: Oh interesting.
Al: Yeah, so most of most of the animals are pretty similar to the farming.
Chelsea: Yeah.
Al: It's very low maintenance.
Al: You have us, each of them has a specific type of food that they eat.
Al: You provide them with that food and they provide you with something that you can cook.
Chelsea: Yep.
Al: So the chicken-like animals, they give you eggs and also legs off themselves, which I don't know whether that was explained, but that's weird.
Chelsea: They, You open the box and the chicken legs are there.
Chelsea: You don't see any of the butchering.
Al: Literally, it's like the, yeah, I don't, I'm guessing it's one of these things like where like lizards sometimes just pop their legs off and grow a new one or something like that.
Al: I don't know.
Al: The cows...
Chelsea: We don't know who is butchering our chickens at night, but they just every day we come and there's 4 chicken legs in the box.
Al: Yeah.
Al: Yeah, weird.
Al: The cow type thing, the cows, you said they were just called cows.
Al: That makes sense.
Chelsea: Yeah, yeah.
Al: They provide you with milk, obviously.
Al: There was the thing, the little lizards in the water.
Al: I can't remember what they give us.
Chelsea: They give you the tail.
Al: Oh yes, the tales.
Al: It's all just like different types of food.
Al: The specifics of them doesn't particularly matter, right?
Chelsea: It's just like portions of a meal.
Chelsea: No.
Al: Again, like the farming, it's very, very low stakes. It's like here are your, if you don't, if you forget to feed them, you just don't get the thing the next day.
Al: right?
Al: Like I don't...
Chelsea: Yeah, there's no friendship level at all.
Chelsea: It's just you don't get the supplies the next day.
Al: Exactly, exactly.
Al: So there's a number of different ones.
Al: You unlock them as you go and you can you can add more of them as well.
Al: But again, you're not, you're not adding 30 animals, you know, like it's, you're adding, I mean, I've got 2 cows and 2 chickens and I presume they don't increase much more than that.
Chelsea: No, the max is 2 cows.
Chelsea: Um. Yeah, that's it.
Al: There you go.
Chelsea: It doesn't it just doubles your milk.
Chelsea: So you got 4 bottles instead of 2.
Chelsea: And then you get additional fur, and that's it.
Al: You know, yes.
Al: Yep.
Al: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Al: Um, and and then the other food gathering thing during the morning is the fishing.
Al: Um, and uh, this is uh, A pretty simple fishing mini game again.
Al: But I guess in terms of fishing mini games, it's probably the one in one of the ones that I least dislike.
Al: I'm not a huge fan of fishing mini game.
Chelsea: I, I actively avoid fishing games.
Chelsea: This one wasn't this one wasn't terrible.
Al: Yeah, I think that's probably because it was like the least to do.
Al: It was, it's slightly more than Animal Crossing, fishing, and much less than Starjam fishing.
Chelsea: Yeah, definitely.
Al: So the idea is you have one fishing rod that you go up to and you have to have the bait.
Al: I think you can use, there's multiple different types of grubs you can use that, because there's, yeah.
Chelsea: Yeah, there's the daytime grubs and then the glowy grub.
Al: Yeah.
Al: And you interact with the fishing rod and basically you aim for these like bubble circles in the water.
Al: So you aim left and right and then you have to decide how far you're going and the aim is just to get inside one of these bubble rings.
Al: And if you get inside one of the fish, one of the bubble rings, then at some point a fish will hook on and you just press the A and that reels it in, kind of like the animal crossing stuff.
Al: And if you miss one of the fish, the bubble rings, you just have to try again.
Al: So there's a little bit of skill in it in terms of you have to aim for the circle.
Al: But it's not particularly hard.
Al: Once you get the idea of how far to go.
Chelsea: No.
Al: It's pretty easy. And there's not really any downside.
Al: You don't lose your bait if you miss.
Chelsea: Yeah, you don't lose it if you miss it, but if the if the fish hooks on and you don't reel it in right away, you lose the grub.
Al: Oh, I'd missed that, right?
Chelsea: But um, did you unlock the 2nd fishing rod area?
Al: Okay.
Al: No, I did not.
Al: Where is that?
Chelsea: It's so I should, I worded it wrong, but it's the same place, but it's the further bubble.
Chelsea: You get, you're like unlocked, yeah, and you get like rarer fish through there that are more useful towards the end of the game.
Al: Oh, right, so it's another another bubble ring.
Al: Right.
Al: Okay.
Chelsea: And then you have that guy near the restaurant that tells you the, um, what fish will be there that day.
Al: Right.
Chelsea: You pay them 50 sol lira.
Chelsea: And then he tells you what's there.
Chelsea: So it just fills up the holes, you see what kind of fish there are.
Al: Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Al: So that's kind of the morning.
Al: just kind of your standard farming game stuff, just kind of pretty simple versions.
Al: I didn't, I kind of enjoyed it the most of this game because it's kind of the predictable routine type stuff that you get in a farming game that I quite like.
Al: Tell me why you didn't like it.
Chelsea: I did have to laugh.
Chelsea: I had to laugh because the 1st few days I played.
Chelsea: I think I was in like Legend of Zelda mode, like, 0 my god, the days passing.
Al: Yeah.
Chelsea: And then I realised that it doesn't move until you progress to the next part.
Al: Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Chelsea: once you went to the restaurant, then you start the 2nd part of the day, but there's no rush in the morning.
Al: Yeah.
Chelsea: So you can just do whatever you want.
Al: Yeah, so that's actually something that I've kind of talked about quite a bit.
Al: Like I like when games do this sort of thing where they're playing around with with time a little bit more because obviously you've got your your Stardews where it's running at like 15 minutes per day and then you've got your animal crossings where it's running to real time.
Al: And it was the one thing, so I talked about Sugar Dew Island, which I hated, but one of the things I really liked about it was the idea of not having time, because what I really, one of the things I'm not enjoying a lot just now is when farming games have both, like limited time and also limited stamina, because then you have like 2 things you're trying to beat the whole time.
Chelsea: Mm-hmm.
Al: Um, whereas, and this game has neither of them.
Al: It doesn't have limited time and it doesn't have stamina, but what it does have is just a limited number of things you can do at each point.
Chelsea: No.
Al: So it's like, it's almost, if you're looking for cosy, that's almost the ultimate cosy is just, here's a bunch of stuff.
Al: Do as much of as little as you want of it and then continue.
Al: You decide when you're done.
Al: I quite like that.
Chelsea: Yeah.
Chelsea: Yeah, because you don't have to gather everything.
Chelsea: But you do need it for the, for the restaurant.
Al: No, but you do.
Al: Of course you, of course you do.
Chelsea: Yeah, I guess I shouldn't say you can't, because you do need it.
Al: Who doesn't?
Al: Who doesn't who doesn't gather everything?
Al: Come on, Chelsea.
Chelsea: Did you play the mini game, Clamours?
Chelsea: You didn't do clamours?
Al: No.
Al: No, where was that?
Chelsea: The guy on the shore and then you like the seashell mini game?
Al: Oh, no, yes.
Al: Oh, yes, yes.
Al: He just he turns up one day and is like, oh, yeah, yeah, no, I did.
Chelsea: Yeah.
Chelsea: Yeah, it's just the 10 levels and then you just can never play him again for fun.
Al: I did.
Al: I forgot about that.
Al: Yeah, I did.
Chelsea: And I'm like, why can't I play clamours anymore?
Al: Oh, really?
Al: interesting.
Al: No, I did, I did the 1st level.
Al: I won it and went, okay, I'm done with this.
Chelsea: Yeah, I didn't know how far up it went, but eventually you're slamming your clams so high.
Chelsea: it goes into space.
Al: Obviously, makes sense.
Chelsea: Yeah, you just get like rewards for the restaurant.
Chelsea: It's kind of the same thing every time though, even in the description of the item.
Chelsea: It's like, okay, this is a lot of aquariums because he just keeps giving you aquariums.
Al: Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Chelsea: Yeah, but I felt.
Al: So I got the 1st aquarium and then I was like, okay, sure, fine.
Al: I'm not planning on finishing this game, so I don't really care about getting more of that.
Al: Yeah, so tell me over... Yeah, well, I didn't know you were going to finish it 100%.
Chelsea: You knew I was going to finish.
Al: I'll be honest with you.
Al: Yeah, so you said this is the bit that you dislike most in the game.
Al: Tell me, tell me why.
Chelsea: When the fate of the world is on my shoulders, I'm not collecting grubs.
Al: But you are if that's how you help.
Chelsea: But I know, but 1st of all, I'm the sous chef.
Chelsea: Not the main chef until the guy comes back and submits the restaurant to you.
Chelsea: Um, yeah, so I like.
Al: Sure.
Al: You're the acting chef.
Chelsea: Yes, there you go.
Chelsea: So, I didn't mind the crops and stuff.
Chelsea: Um, I thought MPCs would be helpful, but they're not.
Chelsea: They say hi.
Al: Mm-hmm.
Chelsea: Hello, or I'm getting my steps in today.
Chelsea: There is a, there is a caretaker that comes towards,
Al: Yeah.
Chelsea: well, I don't know how late.
Chelsea: I know if I did it wrong, but he came to me towards the end of the game, and he will automate, he will collect all of your stuff for you.
Chelsea: Um, for the next day, so he gathers it all at night, all your grubs, all your things that you can collect around the town, like the plants that grow and the dough tree things.
Al: Ah
Chelsea: And then he just like leaves them in a box and then if you want, you can pay for them.
Chelsea: If not, you just gather them yourself.
Chelsea: But I unlocked him like the day before I did the final boss.
Al: Okay.
Chelsea: So I feel like I did it in the wrong order, but he just, he came super, super late in the game for me.
Chelsea: Um, yeah, I thought I was gonna mostly look forward to the farming aspect, but I actually really enjoyed the card.
Al: Interesting.
Al: Yeah, okay, okay.
Al: Yeah, I think I think the point about the village just kind of feeling like it exists rather than it's doing anything is fair, right?
Al: Like, there's you unlock kind of shops and stuff like that throughout the village, which help you with the other stuff that we're talking about, but yeah, it doesn't really feel like how do I describe this?
Al: It feels lived in but lived in by empty husk.
Chelsea: I have in my notes here.
Chelsea: I literally have a note saying town is ever...
Al: Yeah, like there are there are people, but they're not doing anything.
Chelsea: Uh.
Al: They're not really, they don't seem to have much.
Al: They put all the personality into the guardians.
Chelsea: Yeah.
Al: Um, which you unlock as you go and nothing else.
Chelsea: Yeah, like they show up in your restaurant.
Chelsea: And that's it.
Al: Yeah, yeah, they show up.
Chelsea: Like they are your restaurant patron.
Al: They barely even have a name.
Al: If you're not paying attention, you might not even notice that.
Chelsea: No.
Chelsea: Yeah, and yeah, like the way that the store unlocked was cool, I guess.
Chelsea: Like you'd have to supply the iron and stuff to unlock the garden beds and your cooking skills and stuff like that.
Chelsea: Um, and I don't know if it got to the point later in the game or the quarry unlocks.
Chelsea: Like in the town.
Al: No, I didn't get to that.
Chelsea: So instead of having a venture out in the different biomes and just getting supplies that way, there is a little quarry in your town where you can collect iron in the crystals for flavour enhancement.
Chelsea: Um, that I never used, to be honest with you.
Al: Yeah.
Chelsea: Um.
Al: Yeah, I do, I don't, I think that's interesting, but also it feels like it takes away one of the 3 main parts of the game.
Al: Like why such a drastic difference there in how you do it.
Al: Okay, so those are all the things you can do in the morning and then you've done all, you're either like me and you're obsessing over making sure you do absolutely everything or you like Chelsea and you're like, I don't care about any of this.
Al: I just want the food.
Al: And then you go to your cafe and you decide, um, there's a few things you can take.
Al: I mean, technically there's a few things you can do in the cafe before you open it.
Al: Like, you have to, when you get new ingredients, you have to like test them, but really realistically that's only like doing the cooking before you do the shop.
Chelsea: Yeah.
Al: I'll get I'll get to that in a minute.
Al: But there's a few kind of admin tasks you can do in the shop, in the restaurant before you open, but realistically, if you're going into the shop,
Al: It keeps saying shop into the restaurant, it's to open up.
Al: So what you do is you choose the meals.
Al: So you can choose...
Al: I don't know if there's changes, whether you can upgrade it, but when I was playing it, it's up to 4 meals you can choose.
Chelsea: Yeah, it stays the same.
Al: Okay, so you can choose 4 based on the recipes you know and what ingredients you have and then you open up the restaurant and then you do the 1st cooking part because there's 2 cooking parts, of course, just to be weird and complicated.
Chelsea: It up to four.
Al: There are 2 cookings.
Al: So the 1st part of the cookings is those recipes that you chose.
Al: You have a bunch of different mini games that you have to do, basically, to cook them.
Al: So I don't have the list of all of them.
Al: you have to list up?
Chelsea: There's roasting, sauté, chopped, boy, um, tenderised, um, I think that's the 4.
Al: I think...
Chelsea: Boiling.
Al: There's boiling as well, yeah.
Al: Yeah, okay.
Chelsea: Yeah, so those are the five.
Al: So let's just let's just talk about them because they're obviously different mini games.
Al: Um, uh, so there's the chop, which was uh, is basically a rhythm rhythm game.
Chelsea: Yeah.
Al: You've got a, what's it called?
Al: moving thing.
Al: I can't remember what the name for this thing is.
Al: Moving what?
Chelsea: The cleaver?
Chelsea: Oh.
Al: No, no, no, the thing that's moving to bringing them towards you.
Al: Why have I forgotten the word?
Chelsea: Oh, a conveyor belt?
Al: A conveyor belt.
Chelsea: Yeah.
Al: There we go.
Al: That what I'm looking for.
Al: You've got conveyor belt coming towards you with the ingredients and you have to chop them in time to them coming down.
Al: It's fine.
Al: Um, you have the frying, which is where you have the items in a frying pan and you have to move them around to avoid hotspots and burning them.
Chelsea: Yeah.
Chelsea: Did you play with a controller?
Chelsea: Did you play on the, like on a keyboard?
Al: I played on my my my steam deck, um, so I played with the controller on that, um, and it just...
Chelsea: Okay, I played with the, I played with the Xbox controller on my, on my,
Al: Yep.
Chelsea: Yeah, so I was able to tilt that one pretty easily.
Chelsea: I was just wondered how it worked for other people.
Al: Yeah.
Al: Yeah, I'm presuming that it would use the mouse for...
Chelsea: Oh, okay.
Al: I'm not sure. Yeah, I didn't I didn't try that.
Al: Um, and then you've got the boiling, which is uh, you have to throw into the, there's 3 different pots, and you have to throw into the different pots.
Al: The further away, the more you get, but also there's like a specific one that's highlighted, which gets you quite a lot more.
Chelsea: No.
Al: I can't remember the exact, it's like 10, 20, and 30, but I can't remember what they are without the
Chelsea: I think it's 30.
Chelsea: I think if you just get without it is 5 points.
Chelsea: Without the circle around it.
Al: Right, okay.
Al: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Chelsea: For the closest.
Al: So it's, you have to aim, but it's the same aiming as the fishing where you just, you figure out the right height on the bar.
Al: You've got a bar that tells you, it is like how much force you're putting in and you just figure out where it is on the bar and you just do that.
Chelsea: Yeah.
Al: So not particularly hard.
Al: I wasn't finding any of these particularly hard.
Al: I don't know about you.
Chelsea: Yeah, like, did you get to the point where you could automize one?
Chelsea: Like, did you have Travers take over one of the techniques for you?
Al: No, no, he's um, he's, he's, he's still in chains.
Chelsea: Okay, so when he,
Chelsea: Once he's free of chains, he basically takes over one of your stations for you.
Chelsea: So no matter what you do, you'll get a fantastic, like perfect score on one of the techniques.
Al: Okay.
Chelsea: So I just put them on the boiling one because I was bad with that basketball part, but I was good at all the other ones.
Al: Fair enough.
Al: And then there's the roasting one, which you unlock that one that's not there at the beginning you have to you have to fix the oven to do that one.
Chelsea: Yeah.
Al: And in that, you have to basically put the right amount of wood in the fire to warm up the ingredients enough, but not burn them.
Al: None of these I found particularly intriguing.
Chelsea: Yep.
Al: They were maybe they feel like kind of Mario Party mini games, but if you were playing Mario Parton... If you were play, yeah, but if you were playing Mario Parton, there were only 5 mini games.
Chelsea: That's exactly what I said to my husband.
Chelsea: This is like mini game, Mario party game.
Chelsea: Did you unlock the tenderising one yet?
Al: I didn't, I know I didn't get it.
Chelsea: Okay, you're just basically, you'll have these things in a pot and you just mash a hammer around.
Chelsea: And break them apart and the more pieces that they break into, the higher you score.
Al: Is that just as fast as you can button?
Chelsea: Yeah, pretty much just go like across the, the pan and it's, you know, it's pretty easy to get the perfect score.
Al: I mean, realistically, most of these are pretty easy to get the perfect score.
Al: Like, out of the 4 things that I did most most days, I would get 3 out of 4 of them being perfect.
Al: After a few days you get, I mean, I, I don't know, I don't want to speak for anyone else.
Chelsea: Okay.
Al: After a few days, I got pretty good at them.
Al: They weren't particular.
Chelsea: Yeah.
Chelsea: That's fair.
Al: Okay, so that's the kind of 1st cooking, um, and then once you've done all the mini games you need to for the ingredients you have, because different ingredients need specific, uh, the different preparation methods.
Al: But once you've, once you've done all of that, then uh, you have to rush the meals over to the other people, I'd say rush, you have like 60 seconds.
Al: It really does not take it takes like...
Chelsea: Yeah, and you can't even give the, you can't even give the wrong, you can't even give the wrong recipe to somebody.
Al: Yeah.
Chelsea: Like, I thought, oh, I'm going to give it to the wrong person.
Chelsea: It just doesn't let you serve the wrong thing.
Al: Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Al: So it's, um, feels like a weird part of addition to the game because it's just like, it just feels like more busy work.
Al: And I, I, I, I never got any of them like not in the time, not in the green timer.
Chelsea: Yep.
Al: Never mind the yellow or red.
Chelsea: Yeah, same.
Al: Like, I don't I don't know how you'd manage not to...
Chelsea: No idea.
Chelsea: But I found towards the end of the game, I was saving all my big ingredients for the for the caretaker for their battle, and honestly, it gets to the point where once you're a restaurant is at Max Appeal, which is 10 people.
Al: Yeah.
Chelsea: You could just choose one dish if you have enough, um, of that ingredient and just serve it to all of them.
Al: Oh, interesting, okay.
Chelsea: And then you save, that's what, I don't know if that's probably not how you're supposed to play.
Chelsea: But, um, and then that way you save all of your rare ingredients.
Al: If it works, it works, who cares if it's what they wanted you to do?
Chelsea: Yeah.
Chelsea: That way you can save all of your rare, um, expensive ingredients for your caretaker.
Al: Yeah, okay.
Al: And presumably at some point you're like, I found that money was not hard to come by.
Al: So it's not like you're going to be like maxing out the amount of money you can make from the meals anyway.
Chelsea: No.
Al: All right.
Al: So that's the the, what I thought was the main part of the game.
Al: But it turns out, there's a whole other part of the game and a 2nd cooking mini game, if you will, where you learn quite early on in the game that you have these characters called Guardians, you start off with one of them, and they go out and defeat monsters out in the wild. And it's your job to feed the Guardians.
Chelsea: That's just the beginning.
Al: the right food, to ensure that they have the right tools at their disposal, to fight the monsters.
Chelsea: Yeah.
Al: So that starts off with the cooking, but it continues later, but let's talk about the cooking first.
Al: So you start off with a base of a meal.
Al: Um, uh, you choose that and then you can add basically as many ingredients as you can fit on the plate, right?
Al: You've got a grid.
Al: And each ingredient takes up a certain number, like they might be a one by one and they might be a 3 by 3, some, whatever, there's loads of different ingredients, and you have to fit them onto the grid.
Chelsea: Yep.
Al: The complication here is that different ingredients have different flavours and the flavours change the cards that you get for the battle later on.
Al: And this is the thing that I suspect based on what you've said confused you the most to start with and certainly confused me.
Chelsea: Right.
Chelsea: The grid didn't confuse me, but the card typing did.
Al: Not the grid, just the cooking, the cards.
Al: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Chelsea: Yeah.
Al: What ingredients to use confused me because, um, I don't think they, they, they, they, they do our tutorial on what you're meant to be doing, but once, yeah, once, if you, if you zoom through that, that, tough.
Chelsea: Once.
Chelsea: And if you're hit, hey, it's gone.
Al: That it.
Al: You don't get to see the tutorial again.
Al: At least neither of us found a way to do that.
Al: Um, But yeah, it um, and part of the problem was we were both playing this game quite early on, so there's not a huge amount online about it yet.
Chelsea: Uh, nope.
Chelsea: No, I'm looking through it.
Chelsea: I'm like, oh, I have to be writing the guide.
Al: Don't do that.
Al: It's a it's a it's a dangerous thing to do is to become the person that everybody wants the guides from.
Chelsea: Oh, good.
Al: Um, So it's further complicated by the fact that different, so each ingredient has a flavour.
Al: It also has like a value to the card.
Al: that it gives you as well as a flavour.
Al: So each card has a flavour and a value.
Al: But also, the overall dish has total values for the flavours, which are affected by not only the ingredients you put in, but where you put them on the grid and what ingredients they're next.
Chelsea: Yep.
Al: Now, this is something I never figured out.
Al: Now, please tell me if you understand this.
Al: So each ingredient gives you a specific card, but as far as I can see, the overall values don't seem to specifically affect the cards.
Chelsea: Okay.
Al: So if you put something that so there's um, if you put an ingredient next to another ingredient that increases the overall flavour, it didn't seem to affect the actual values on the cards themselves.
Al: It just affected the overall flavour, which did affect your HP, but not the cards themselves.
Chelsea: No.
Chelsea: No, you would still get the same card effects, but, um, yeah, later in the combat, they wouldn't compliment each other, but it doesn't really matter, um, in terms of the actual meal, like unless you go against the preference of the caretaker, but that's like the friendship thing is completely not related to the meal.
Al: Yeah.
Al: Yeah, that's that's what I thought.
Al: But that that to me, and this is this is where my big issue comes in.
Al: Is that overcomplicates at all because not only do you have to figure out what cards you're going to need, right?
Al: Like what flavours you're focussing on, but you also have to focus on the overall scores.
Al: But if I'm putting things next to each other to a, in the, in the cooking and putting things next to each other to increase or decrease specific flavours so I get the overall flavours, that doesn't give me an advantage other than the HP in the actual game.
Al: So I'm like, okay, I've got this thing that gives me a 5 bitter and I put something next to it.
Al: It doesn't change the card, but it changes the overall flavour, which just changes whether or not I get more HP later on.
Chelsea: Yeah.
Al: It's like, why is it doing 2 different things?
Al: That's what I'm confused about.
Chelsea: Yeah, it's a pain because I found once you unlock their max friendship, though, it doesn't impact as much because they still get a bonus.
Al: Right.
Chelsea: I know.
Chelsea: It was a lot, and I really wish, in that empty town, that there was one person that you could consult with, like maybe had like a, like a practice or like, oh,
Al: He could have talked more about it.
Al: Yeah.
Chelsea: Hey, do you need some help or just some sort of like guide?
Al: Yeah, I mean, the good thing is that if you do fail, you can then just try the next day, but obviously you're then having to like get more ingredients because you use them up.
Al: I think that's the most frustrating thing to me, right?
Al: So if we if I go back to Culture de Lamb, which is my baseline for this is a good rogue like, if you go out and do some battles to get some items and you fail, you come back with some of the stuff, but you lose some of the stuff.
Al: But the key point is, you didn't have to pay to go out, right?
Al: Like if on in this, to do the battle, you have to use up ingredients, those ingredients are used up no matter what happens.
Al: So if you die, well, you're not dying, but if you fail and come back without your ingredients, you're now, it's not that you don't have more ingredients, it's that you have less ingredients because you've already used up a bunch of ingredients.
Chelsea: Yeah, and then basically you have to go out and do a wasted day to get some of those ingredients back because the market is terrible.
Al: Yeah, it's yeah.
Chelsea: There's like 5 items.
Al: Yeah, and they cost you money and and then you could try and go out again and get more ingredients because the best ingredients tend to be like when you're out and about.
Chelsea: And so yeah, you can't.
Chelsea: Yeah.
Chelsea: Yeah, so if you actually want to do a good meal and you fail, you have to go back probably one to 2 times.
Chelsea: So that's 2 days wasted of ventures and then get a return back to the town because you can use the call bell.
Chelsea: Ha, ha, ha.
Chelsea: Um, to return back to the restaurant and then you still bring 75% of what you gathered, but that's another day that you're wasting, and then you have to do all the gathering, all the ingredients, the cooking, the board, all over again.
Al: Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Chelsea: So it's very treacherous.
Chelsea: Well, not treacherous, but tedious is the word.
Al: Yeah, yeah, I think that's right.
Al: Yeah.
Al: If you if you had no cost to going out, then you would feel like you'd be able to experiment more with that, right, and try these things more rather than like, oh, now I have to waste multiple days to get back to the point I was after failing.
Al: Okay, so... One of the things that is important in this cooking that we've kind of talked about and it's also important in the battling is the flavours affecting each other.
Chelsea: Yeah.
Al: So they do the...
Chelsea: And that's where I had no clue what was going on for like several days.
Al: Yeah.
Al: So in the, in the tutorial, they tell you how this works, but and this was the only thing I actually got from the tutorial, and it's the only thing you missed from the tutorial, which is funny.
Al: But basically, part of the problem is their graphic, I think, is incredibly confusing for trying to explain this.
Al: So you have this.
Chelsea: Oh, the type matching chart?
Al: Yes, yeah.
Chelsea: No clue.
Al: So you have this like little graphic that is a circle and the flavours are next to each other.
Chelsea: Yeah.
Al: So you'll have like 2 flavours, 2 flavours.
Al: I don't have it up in front of me and it's not on the steam page.
Chelsea: I know what it is.
Al: I just want to have it in front.
Chelsea: It's also on your home screen if you want, if you go on your, on your, uh, on Panko's profile, it's there.
Al: Yeah, I, I, I do not have that up in front of me just now, sadly.
Al: Ah, here we are.
Al: Ive got it, right.
Al: So you've, it's, you've got this almost circle type thing.
Al: So you have umami and sour next to each other with a little tilde connecting them, which means they enhance each other.
Al: And then next to sour is um,
Al: That one's scored out.
Al: What is that one?
Al: What is the yellow one?
Chelsea: Oh, spicy.
Al: Spicy.
Al: I don't know why it's scored out on this one.
Al: There must be something happening.
Chelsea: Because it's a big mystery for everybody.
Al: Oh, is that it is?
Chelsea: It comes later on the game.
Al: And they balance each other.
Al: Part of the problem, I think, is these words are so confusing.
Chelsea: Which to me, which to me, I thought meant.
Al: What do they mean?
Chelsea: To me, I thought balance meant they work together.
Al: Yeah, nope, nope, that's in hands.
Al: And then and.
Chelsea: I know, but I'm like, what do you mean weekend?
Al: So I think part of the problem is that it's not like a type chart where everything affects the one to the right.
Al: It's they all affect each other, the one.
Al: Well, they all affect the ones next to them, but in both directions, but it's different depending on which direction you're going.
Al: So in the cooking.
Chelsea: It is.
Al: Because these 2 the enhancing and the balancing mean different things in the cooking than they do in the battling, which I think is part of the confusion.
Al: We'll get to the battling in a minute because part of the problem is they are very intertwined, but we do need to talk about the one apart from each other as well.
Al: So in the cooking, enhancing, see, I already confused myself there, enhancing in the cooking means they increased the total value of both flavours in the overall values, which again, all that effects is your HP.
Chelsea: Yep.
Al: And I guess how happy they are when they eat the food.
Chelsea: Just for the meal, yeah, and then bottle it's a...
Al: And then balancing in the cooking means they decrease the value of both of them for some reason.
Al: Enhancing kind of makes sense when it says it, right?
Al: Enhance, that means going up, but balancing, balancing does not mean go down.
Al: That's not what that means.
Chelsea: That's okay.
Chelsea: Exactly.
Chelsea: So I thought if I gave my bitter caretaker, if I gave him, um, whatever went brought bitter down, salty, I think.
Chelsea: I thought it was going to hurt my caretaker.
Chelsea: Um, and they don't explain that.
Al: Yeah.
Al: Nope.
Chelsea: Like you can use any different kinds of cards for everyone and it doesn't matter.
Al: Yep.
Al: Yep, and in fact, you will need to because you won't, certainly after the 1st couple, you won't get through with only one or 2 types.
Chelsea: So, like, you should have, yeah.
Al: You just it just won't work.
Chelsea: No.
Al: So goodness me, this is so complicated to explain, but...
Chelsea: I'm too Pokemon pilled.
Chelsea: To me, it was like same type attack bonus.
Al: Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Al: So, and one thing about the overall flavours is that there's like a target range.
Al: So it's not just about try and increase them all to the maximum because I guess the lower is that that wouldn't make a tasty dish, I guess.
Al: But yeah, so you're like trying to put as many ingredients as you can on the grid, and as high value ones as possible, so you get high numbers on the cards, and also as many different kinds, but you need to stick within a certain range for every flavour, which means that you can have the exact same ingredients on the board that match, and it match the overall flavours.
Chelsea: Yeah.
Al: and you move the items and it doesn't match them anymore because they're next to different things, which, 1st of all, is not how meals work.
Chelsea: Eat around it.
Al: That's not how food works, right?
Al: Like, I don't, if I have a plate of food and I put the carrots next to the, the, the, the potatoes, it doesn't taste different than if I put the carrots next to the chicken, right?
Al: Like, it's all the same plate of food.
Chelsea: Eat it the way you want.
Chelsea: okay?
Chelsea: I about hand feeding you this.
Chelsea: Just don't eat the carrots first.
Al: Yeah.
Chelsea: I know, I hate like, you have the full bowl, like the full, the full grid.
Chelsea: And then they're like, oh, I want a delishkin egg.
Chelsea: I'm like, you're not getting a bush egg.
Al: Yes.
Chelsea: There's no room on the board.
Al: Yes, yeah, so that's the other thing that they will ask.
Al: They'll ask for a specific thing
Al: Sometimes it's like, I want the base of the food to be this.
Al: Sometimes it's, I want this specific ingredient and sometimes it's, I don't want, like, what's the, what's the, what's the umami guy's name?
Al: Oh, Oi, Oi.
Chelsea: Or or you should.
Al: Oishi.
Al: He once asked me for no vegetables.
Chelsea: Sir, you are made of vegetables.
Al: So yeah, that was that was a fun one to do because obviously there's a lot of vegetables in the game.
Chelsea: Yeah, I gave him rice.
Al: So I think one of the things, which is funny, because not a vegetable.
Al: One of the things that I find odd about this is that I don't really understand why we have 2 different kind of cooking concepts, right?
Chelsea: No.
Al: I found it really disconcerting the 1st time I was going through and I'm like, oh, I see how cooking works.
Al: We do all these mini games and then we serve the food.
Al: And then he was like, oh, it's time to serve your guardian.
Al: And I'm like, oh, okay, fine.
Chelsea: Where's my dinner?
Al: I guess I'll be doing a meal for them in the same sort of weight.
Al: And then it goes, ha ha, no, no.
Al: Here's a completely different way of cooking for them.
Al: And I was like, okay.
Chelsea: Use your grid.
Al: All right, fine.
Al: And then it suddenly throws all of the information at you. And you're like, this is too much information.
Al: I can't take this all in at once.
Al: Fine.
Al: Let's continue and I'll learn it as we go.
Al: Spoiler alert.
Al: You won't learn it as you go.
Chelsea: I honestly saw it here for a few minutes and on my questioning.
Chelsea: I'm like, there's no way I'm this stupid.
Chelsea: Like, what am I missing?
Al: Yeah.
Chelsea: Turns out I just am.
Chelsea: But yeah, like I hit A twice by accident and then it was done.
Chelsea: And it's like, well, good luck with good luck to you.
Chelsea: And there's no place to to re, like to have the tutorial again.
Chelsea: So.
Chelsea: Yeah.
Al: Yeah.
Al: Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Al: Okay, so, um,
Chelsea: Surprisingly, this is the part that I liked was the cards in the combat.
Al: Yeah, so can we talk about this anymore in isolation or are we going to have to go onto the battle?
Chelsea: Um, so the cards have abilities too, not just points.
Chelsea: Um.
Al: Yeah, it's hard to talk about that without the actual combat, right?
Chelsea: Yeah, like there's,
Al: So let's let's let's talk about let's talk about the combat then.
Chelsea: Yeah, no, I guess that's about it.
Al: So after you have fed your guardian, this complicated, overcomplicated platter of food, and either giving them what they want or you've not, and also either giving them what you'll need for the combat or you've not, then they go off and they're saying, I'll see you in the tea house when I'm done and you shut down the restaurant and now you move on tonight.
Chelsea: Made with magic fire.
Al: So it's now nighttime.
Al: So we can then go, there's, I mean, you can do the same sort of stuff if you want, or you can then just go up to the tea house and talk to your guardian, and then your guardian will put on a little puppet show for you.
Chelsea: A...
Al: I kind of, as much as like, as much as there are things about this game that I'm not enjoying it, and I don't know whether I overall enjoyed playing the game.
Al: It is very full of whimsy, which I do enjoy.
Chelsea: It's true.
Chelsea: Like, you have your meals cooked by this magical wreck fire raccoon that enhances it with flavour.
Chelsea: And the little puppet show, it's like, I, um, it's hard for people that are just listening, but one of the guardians is like this very stoic, tall, like dark creature thing, and you just picture him putting on this little puppet show behind a stand.
Al: Yeah.
Al: So so you go up and you ask, yeah, absolutely.
Chelsea: That part was adorable.
Al: So you go up and you ask for the puppet show and then, uh, this is where, um, you you do the combat.
Al: So they start off by telling you about the start of their journey and you have a map, which has multiple different kind of paths to get to a specific point.
Al: Now, the overall important thing to point out is that the point of this bit is to get to a specific point where you can then respond from next time you do it.
Al: If you don't get all the way, then you'll have to try again next time.
Chelsea: Yeah.
Al: But there are so sometimes it'll be like a camp.
Al: Uh, sometimes they'll, part of my problem is that I was never quite clear what I'm, which I'm, I'm meant to be getting to, right?
Al: Because sometimes it would be sometimes a boss would be the end and that would be fine and sometimes it would have to be a specific camp and sometimes it would be like other point like this.
Chelsea: Mm-hmm.
Al: It's never quite clear.
Al: There was one point where I came.
Al: There was one point where I came across, I defeated a boss and it was like, oh, do you want to continue or do you want to go back to camp?
Al: And I was like, oh, sounds like I've got to a spawn point.
Al: I want to go back.
Al: And then it turns out that that was not a camp.
Al: I couldn't stay there.
Al: So the next time I had to redo all of that, including the boss.
Chelsea: Yeah.
Al: That was very annoying.
Al: I think it doesn't do a good job of telling you which points are going to be the spawn points.
Chelsea: Nope.
Al: And then there was another point where I was one away, and I think this is a scripted thing.
Al: I was one away from a spawn point when it you come across one of the characters who you've been looking for and you have to bring them back to camp and you're not allowed to continue.
Al: And I was won away from the spawn point and I had to redo all of that again and there was no, I didn't have a choice in that.
Chelsea: Oh.
Chelsea: Was that for the sweet caretaker for Azzer?
Al: No, no, I don't.
Chelsea: No, which one?
Al: think it was, I think it was Tavers.
Chelsea: Oh yeah, oh yeah, you find him.
Chelsea: It's like, well, let's get you back to camp.
Al: You find tavers and it's like, we're going back now and I was like, but there's a spawn point right there.
Al: I want to go to that, please.
Chelsea: Just let me get there.
Al: Just like, can we just go one more metre?
Chelsea: Come with me for a minute.
Al: Just go to this camp and then we'll go back.
Chelsea: Yeah.
Al: I was so frustrated with that one.
Al: So yeah, sometimes it's not quite clear where you're going.
Al: But the general idea is there's a bunch of different paths with points along it where in which things happen, some battles, some things where you're, you're, you know, getting items.
Al: And at some point, there is a there is a camp or something else where you will be able to spawn from next.
Chelsea: Did you realise on the map that it shows you what flavours are being used?
Chelsea: Because it took me very long to realise that.
Al: I did not notice that and I don't think I don't think that helps because my big problem with this is it doesn't tell you before you go out.
Chelsea: So if you.
Al: It's too late by this point.
Al: It doesn't help me knowing now.
Al: I needed to know when I was cooking.
Chelsea: You can look.
Chelsea: There's a map at the restaurant.
Chelsea: It says, let's see where we've been, and you can open up and it shows you the regions and it shows you where you've been, and it'll show you like the bitter path or the sour path.
Al: But do they not change every time you go?
Chelsea: I don't think so.
Al: Oh.
Chelsea: Because I took me so, I was in the bistro discord, just reading through some stuff and yeah, so it says like, oh, the lower part of this region is salty or sweet.
Al: Ah!
Chelsea: And then.
Al: I don't know.
Al: I don't know whether this team ever got anybody who hadn't made the game to try it because there's so many things like that that are like, sure, the information's there if you know it's there.
Al: But if I don't know it's there, how am I meant to know it's there?
Chelsea: I know, I was like,
Al: Like, I thought the whole point of the cooking and their opinions is to, so you, it's like, because if they come in, they say I want specific things.
Chelsea: It took me, yeah.
Al: They want specific flavour palettes and I'm like, okay, great.
Al: That'll give me information as to what cards I need.
Al: But no, that's not how it works.
Chelsea: No.
Al: U
Chelsea: Yeah, because I realised after, because there's the map, it's like, let's see where we've been, and then you open it up and you can just choose like marshlands or the coast or whatever, and it shows you whatever path.
Chelsea: If you go up, it's the mountains are purple or the mountains are blue at the bottom and that shows you what flavours that are used on those parts of the region.
Chelsea: But you wouldn't know that.
Chelsea: You would have no way of knowing that.
Chelsea: I feel that sigh.
Al: Yep.
Chelsea: I feel it.
Al: Okay, well, let's let's let's get back.
Al: So that's that's done.
Al: We'll move past that.
Al: So, um, there's a, there's a, there's a number of different things that can happen on your, your, your path through the map.
Chelsea: Like just shake your head.
Al: One of which is obviously the battles.
Al: about that in a minute, but you can also gather ingredients, so you might come across an ingredient, and then there's a very small mini game where you have to like keep the shovel within the circle.
Al: Um, and there's kind of other things that can happen as well.
Al: Like, as I mentioned, you can come across different people.
Al: There's there's bosses as well.
Al: You can have battles that are 2 creatures against you.
Al: There's a number of different things.
Al: Um, so battles time.
Al: It's a relatively simple concept with some complications in the flavours that we'll get to.
Al: Basically, what happens is you have your hand of cards taken from your deck of cards that you created from the cooking.
Al: And your opponent shows a card of a specific value and a specific flavour.
Al: What you need to do is you need to have the right flavour to play against that, which you'll get to in a minute, of a higher value that means that whoever has the higher value then will will do damage to the other player.
Al: The complication.
Al: So there are 2 things you can do.
Al: You can either provide a card of the exact same flavour, in which case higher number wins, or you can choose the number which ballot, the card which balances the flavour.
Al: And if you choose, no, that's not enhances, that's balances.
Al: So if you choose, so for example, if we go back to the chart, if the if the opponent chooses bitter, the flavour, the balances that is umami, so if they choose a bitter one, you have to choose, you can choose a mami and that will have their number, which is obviously a massive advantage in the combat.
Al: Um, what I don't understand about this logic, lower wise is why these flavours both balance each other.
Al: So why is my card balancing theirs, but theirs isn't balancing mine.
Chelsea: I know that, yeah.
Al: I do not understand this.
Al: This is not like in Pokemon types where electric beats water because it's strong against it.
Al: This is like 2 being strong against each other, but only one actually does it and it's ours.
Al: Don't understand that.
Chelsea: Yeah, and then to complicate it, if you have the balancing, if you have the enhancing card for your, Card that you, your original card that you put, then you could do double the damage or whatever the special ability is.
Chelsea: Um,
Al: Yeah.
Chelsea: Yeah, that took me a while too.
Chelsea: I'm like, oh, my own enhancing mine.
Al: Yeah.
Chelsea: Okay, because I thought originally it was like this trump card.
Al: Yeah, so the enhancing, so so the enhancing is, so let's go back to the my example.
Al: So if the if the opponent chooses bitter, I can either choose umami to have their number or I can choose bitter to have the to just match the number.
Al: But once I've chosen my card, if I choose the umami card, if I have a sour card, that will enhance my umami, so I can choose that as well and that increases the damage.
Al: If I chose the bitter, I would have to choose salty to enhance it.
Chelsea: Yep.
Al: And this was the thing that confused me the most, because I was like, I was never getting the enhance, the ability to enhance, and I was confused why, and it's because it's a different flavour for each flavour.
Chelsea: Oh.
Al: I figured it out eventually.
Al: I now understand the combat.
Al: It doesn't mean I like it, but I understand it.
Al: So.
Chelsea: It was a slog to get to that understanding for me.
Al: So it means you can also balance and enhance at the same time.
Al: So if they choose bitter, you can balance it with an umami and then also enhance your own card with a sour.
Chelsea: Yeah.
Al: Or you can just use a mami, which is the same one and enhance it with the sour.
Al: No, bitters, it was bitter.
Al: You can use the bitter, which is the same colour, and enhance it with the salty.
Chelsea: Yeah.
Al: So depending on what card you have, it might be better to choose the same flavours they have because you can then enhance it.
Al: Whereas if you have only the umami, which enhances it.
Al: Sorry, it balances it.
Al: You might not have a sour to enhance that enough to make enough damage because obviously a lot of the cards numbers can get quite high near kind of the middle, middle to end of the game.
Chelsea: Mm-hmm.
Al: So, yeah, um, I understand all of that now.
Al: I do wish they had given us a better way to understand it or explain it again.
Al: I think their graphic is incredibly confusing.
Al: And I think that some, just some of the logic around why this is the case is weird and leads to the confusions a bit more as well.
Chelsea: Yes.
Chelsea: I think you're right.
Al: I don't just, I don't dislike it as a concept.
Chelsea: It was, yeah.
Al: I just think the way it was implemented and explained is weird.
Al: Like, I almost think it would be better if instead of it was like these 2 flavours enhance these 2 flavours and...
Chelsea: Yeah.
Al: If it was like a circle where everything enhanced one and balanced the other, not a different one.
Al: And then it's like, and then it's very, it's much, much more like kind of the Pokemon types, right?
Chelsea: That's what I would think.
Al: Where it's like, this one is strong against this one, this one is weak against this one.
Chelsea: Yeah, because they're in this game, there's no neutral damage.
Chelsea: Like.
Al: Well, the neutral damage would be the same flavour.
Chelsea: Yeah, as long as you have the higher card of it.
Al: Yeah.
Chelsea: Like, I don't know if it's, yeah, so I found for me, I wasn't doing the higher numbers.
Chelsea: I was doing the, I was building my own thing with my own enhancement.
Al: Yeah.
Chelsea: But then at the end of the game, you need every flavour anyway.
Chelsea: For the boss.
Al: Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Al: I agree.
Chelsea: Yeah.
Al: So my my, my problem, my main problem with actually being able to do this, right?
Chelsea: Oh my gosh.
Al: in terms of my skills was just being able to get enough of the different cards for different flavours because I understand that it shows you the flavours that are used, but it's also that's not true in that the bosses will use other flavours, right?
Al: So you might be in an area where it's primarily umami, but then they'll just throw in a salty and you're like, oh, I don't have anything to deal with this.
Chelsea: Yep.
Al: I'm dying.
Al: Like I'm not going to manage.
Chelsea: Yeah.
Chelsea: That day is done.
Chelsea: All those ingredients are gone.
Al: And and so that,
Al: So it's really hard to be able to build up a deck that is both strong enough to beat the main flavour that you're doing, right?
Al: Because you need a few cards that are high numbers, but also wide enough that you can not die against any flavour theoretically.
Al: That was really hard for me.
Chelsea: Yeah.
Chelsea: Do you want to, do you want to know what the most powerful recipe is for the best cards?
Al: Go for it.
Chelsea: It's a hot dog.
Al: Ah.
Chelsea: That's something we didn't even mention, the skill tree to unlock recipes.
Al: Yeah, yeah, I kind of had the bit about like the ingredient investigation listed, but I didn't really get to that.
Chelsea: Okay.
Al: We can come to that in a minute once we've finished all the stuff because there's lots of other small bits like that.
Al: So yeah, over time, you are going through these maps, you're getting to the end of a map and then the next time you go to a different map and continue that. And the idea is that as you're going, you're unlocking different guardians who have different flavour enhancements, and you're also just going through a story, which we probably won't talk a huge amount.
Chelsea: What?
Al: Um.
Al: But yeah, anything else to talk about this battles or the map specifically?
Chelsea: Um, I think we covered it, but yeah, it was really annoying to have the, the sudden unexpected flavour, because you can't provide any, like, uh, if you're not trumping it or, or, um, using another flavour, then you can't do anything.
Al: Yeah.
Al: Yeah, there's literally no way you can get out of that.
Chelsea: Like there's no, there's no way to just do neutral damage because even with the same type, you have to have the higher number.
Al: Yeah.
Chelsea: So there's no way to just even each other out.
Chelsea: It's either you're winning with a higher number on the flavour card or you're winning with the type advantage.
Al: Yeah.
Al: The other frustration I found as well.
Al: So you only have 5 cards, max 5 cards in your hand.
Al: And if you need different cards because you didn't draw the right ones because you have one card that works against the card they have, you have to discard your hand and that costs you 2 HP.
Chelsea: Yeah.
Al: Okay?
Al: So like, I died sometimes because I was like, there's a card I can get, but I don't have enough health to get to it.
Al: So I literally killed myself by discarding my hand.
Chelsea: Yeah, that was a pain cycling through.
Chelsea: Did you get to the point of the game where you got fight bites?
Al: No, what's that?
Al: Although, oh no, I did.
Chelsea: So.
Al: I never used them.
Al: They were the little,
Al: Yeah, I unlocked it, but I, by that point I was like, I know enough about this game.
Al: I'm done.
Al: I can be bothered anymore.
Chelsea: Okay, so at the, so yeah, you get these little like instants, I'll say that you can.
Chelsea: You can recover stamina.
Chelsea: There's different ones that you make or there's ones that put the guide as the opponent to sleep.
Chelsea: Or there's one that you can draw your whole hand for no stamina.
Chelsea: Um, there's different ones before the final boss.
Chelsea: All I used was put them to sleep.
Chelsea: But we'll talk about that after when we get to the boss because it's worth talking.
Al: Okay, well, let's, so yeah, so there's standard battles, which is just you against the monster.
Al: There's double battles, which is you against 2 monsters.
Al: And I guess the only real additional complication that brings is that sometimes they might have different flavours, in which case you can only take one of them down.
Chelsea: Yep.
Al: And so you kind of have...
Chelsea: Yeah.
Al: tank a few hits until one of them is dead and then you attack the other one.
Al: And then there's the bosses, which are quite difficult, obviously, they are bosses.
Al: But they, I found they tended to have, obviously they had stronger cards just in general, so that's a problem.
Al: But yeah, they had more variety of flavours as well.
Chelsea: Yeah, that's when I learned that no matter what your caretaker's type is, you need to have all the flavours available in your duck.
Al: Yeah, yeah.
Al: So I don't think there's anything kind of fundamentally different about them other than that.
Al: It's just kind of like they are stronger and therefore you've got to be better.
Al: You know?
Chelsea: Yeah, and then they have the different abilities that can put on you.
Chelsea: Like, I think one of them poisons you and one flips all your cards around so you can't see, um,
Al: We didn't encounter that one.
Chelsea: No, the terrorizer that's in the salty region.
Al: That doesn't sound like that doesn't sound fun.
Chelsea: No, yeah, so it turns all your cards around and then it has a chance to confuse you.
Chelsea: So I was going to do like 20 damage to them and then I hit myself. And then I don't work myself out.
Al: Oh.
Chelsea: And even if you redraw your hand with new cards, they're still all backwards.
Chelsea: So that was kind of a pain.
Chelsea: This is a cute idea though.
Al: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Al: Yeah, well, I mean, sure, but also incredibly frustrating to actually ever be able to...
Chelsea: Oh, yeah, I can't say I wasn't swearing a little bit.
Al: I think the most frustrating thing about them is like their gimmicks mean that you then die and you have to redo 10 spots on the map to get back to it.
Chelsea: Yes.
Al: This has always been my frustration with things where it's not, you can't just like respond wherever you have to, you only have specific points on the map where you can respond.
Chelsea: Yep.
Chelsea: Yeah, you're back at the camp.
Al: I've always found that sort of frustrating because it's like, I can't just re keep replaying the same level.
Al: I have to get back to that level in the 1st place.
Chelsea: And not only that for this game, you have to do the whole recipe all over again, do a whole new day, gather all the ingredients, and then hope that you have the ingredients that you lost.
Al: Yeah.
Chelsea: It's, oh, yeah, it was, it was quite the day night cycle.
Al: But yeah, as you say, there's a bunch of different effects you can have from the cards.
Al: So there's ones that can affect you where if you win, you get HP back, um, there's like uh, defence ones where you get a certain amount of defence and then it means if you get hit, then you take less damage.
Al: And then there's obviously ones that affect the other, the opponent, so you can put them to sleep.
Al: Um, you can, uh, I mean, there's a whole bunch of different things.
Chelsea: Yeah, I didn't, I honestly found, I didn't, I barely use the abilities.
Chelsea: Like, I like the ones that enhanced my own stamina.
Chelsea: Um, I didn't really care to poison them and I only really put the the sleep abilities at the end for the final boss because it's basically a countdown.
Al: Yeah.
Al: Yeah, I kind of like the weekend one because it meant that they, when you next hit them, they took more damage.
Chelsea: Yeah.
Al: That was on a lot of my car.
Chelsea: My favourite one was the double hit.
Chelsea: So if you have the type advantage, you hit them twice with the full amount.
Al: Oh.
Chelsea: So you could double the ability of your card.
Al: Yeah, yeah.
Al: Uh, yeah, so that's probably about it with the battles.
Al: Once you defeated a boss.
Al: Often there was a camp where you could then stop or continue and then you can go back to the village and and the next time you go, you can respond from that point.
Al: But that's kind of kind of it.
Al: battling wise.
Al: And then obviously, along the way, you've been gathering more ingredients, which, assuming you don't die, will be helpful for the next day where you start it all over again.
Chelsea: Yeah, repeat until you finish the game.
Al: So there's a few other things as well.
Al: So you're still nighttime when you finish the public show, you can then continue to do, you know, gathering, if you've not gathered everything.
Al: There's the night fishing, as you mentioned, I think there's sometimes there's some of the gathering ingredients that are night only as well.
Al: So it's worth going around having a look for some things.
Al: And then you can go to sleep and you wake up the next day.
Al: to start all over again.
Al: As you mentioned, there's a couple of things that we haven't really talked about.
Al: So there was, um, uh, skill tree of uh, recipes.
Al: So as you sell things in the restaurant, you gain XP and that gives you chef points and then each recipe costs you a certain number of chef points to unlock. But also, I don't know if I figured out.
Al: Tell me if I'm right or wrong.
Al: I think you can unlock an ingredient.
Al: Obviously, when you've unlocked the recipe before that, but I think you have to have had all of the ingredients for that recipe in your bag at some point to unlock it as well.
Chelsea: I think you need to have all of them when you make it.
Al: Well, when you make it sure, but not when you unlock it.
Al: So I think I think when you...
Chelsea: No, no, sorry.
Chelsea: No, like when you want to make it, like to unlock it for the 1st time, you have to have a...
Al: I don't think you did because I managed to unlock something I didn't have all the ingredients for, but it was that I had had all the ingredients at some point.
Chelsea: Really?
Chelsea: Oh, okay, so then I stalled myself for no reason.
Chelsea: So I thought you had to have them in your inventory when you unlocked it.
Al: I might be wrong.
Al: I'm not sure, but I thought that one of them I unlocked and I couldn't actually make it that day because I didn't have all the ingredients, but I had had all the ingredients before except one, and then I got the final ingredient, having used up something else, but I still then had that ingredient and then it listed it as unlockable at that point.
Chelsea: Because I know that I.
Al: This was what I found most confusing is like you're in this bit, is you're sitting there looking at everything.
Chelsea: Okay, maybe I was.
Al: I've unlocked everything I can, and there's a whole bunch of things that are completely locked and not able for me to unlock, and I was like, why can't I unlock these things?
Al: And then the next day I had a new ingredient, I noticed something was unlockable and it had that ingredient done.
Chelsea: Right.
Chelsea: Okay, so that's why I thought that I had to have them with me.
Chelsea: Like I have the points and have all the stuff so I can make it for the 1st time, like to unlock it, I guess.
Al: Yeah.
Chelsea: I don't know, but yeah, I unlocked all of the recipes, but there were some stuff that I was missing that are like super rare drops.
Al: I join.
Chelsea: So you still have to do more venturing anyway.
Al: Yeah.
Chelsea: And then there's a chance that you lose it because you only bring back a portion of your loot if you call back to the camp or back to your the tea house.
Al: Yeah, yeah.
Al: Yeah.
Chelsea: Um, Yeah, but the, the, so yeah, there's things that you can feed your, your caretaker, your guardian, and then there's recipes that you use just for the patrons.
Chelsea: So with the patrons, you get the money.
Al: Yes.
Chelsea: And then with the caretaker, you get the extra cards for combat.
Chelsea: Yeah.
Al: Yeah.
Al: So there's a skill tree for recipes, but the other thing you have to do is when you get a new ingredient, you have to investigate that ingredient and it's basically just figuring out how to use it.
Al: But all that is, is, is just the one time that you have to do it the 1st time.
Chelsea: Just the one time.
Al: But what I find really funny is it talks about it is if you have to figure out what to do with the ingredient.
Al: But you're not figuring that out.
Al: It just tells you which one to do and then you just have to do the mini game and then you're like, oh, success.
Chelsea: Yeah, the good thing with that, though, is that even if you mess up with that, thankfully, you don't have to go get another ingredient, because I thought if I mess this ingredient up, I'm quitting the game, if I have to go find it again.
Al: Yeah, it does.
Al: yeah, yeah.
Al: Yeah, yeah, thankfully, thankfully.
Chelsea: So thankfully for that part, you can just restart the the trial.
Al: Yeah, so the one thing about that is sometimes it'll be like you have to do specific things.
Al: It's not just about trying to do it as well as possible.
Al: So like there was one which was like, you have to burn everything in the hotspot, but only once.
Al: I'm like, the wording was confusing though.
Chelsea: Yeah.
Al: It made me think that I was able to burn it at most once, but no, it's not at most once.
Al: It's once, exactly.
Al: So I was trying to not burn it at all.
Chelsea: Do a one time.
Al: I succeeded and then it said you failed.
Al: And I'm like, what do you mean fail?
Al: And I was like, oh, it wants me to burn it.
Al: I what?
Chelsea: Yeah, that got me too, because I'm like, I'm not, it's sauteed perfectly fine.
Chelsea: What do you mean?
Chelsea: You have to burn it once.
Al: And then there was one which was like you have to, it was in the oven.
Al: You have to roast it, both of them, to 50%.
Al: neither of them to 100%.
Chelsea: Yeah.
Al: And I'm like, what are we doing here?
Al: What is this cooking?
Chelsea: Kind of cook these things.
Al: Yeah, yeah.
Chelsea: Yeah.
Al: If you fully cook it, you failed.
Al: What is this, a steak?
Chelsea: Yeah.
Chelsea: Oh my gosh.
Chelsea: Yeah, that was, that took me a minute.
Chelsea: I'm like, what do you mean?
Chelsea: I did it perfectly.
Chelsea: It's like, 0 no, to 50%.
Al: But that's it, but this is the thing, like, I, I, I, like, if I was cooking something to medium rare, I would consider that as 100%, that's 100% of the cooking that you were meant to do.
Al: So why are we getting 50% of the way towards what you want to do?
Chelsea: Yeah.
Al: That's what I find weird because like when you actually do the recipe, you're doing everything to 100%.
Chelsea: Yeah, luckily there's not too many things that you have to like study.
Chelsea: Um.
Al: Yeah.
Chelsea: But the few the few ones got me a little bit, like, what am I doing wrong?
Al: Yeah, it's like rare monster parts that you're coming across basically because it's like, oh, no one's no one's cooked with this, so we need to figure out how to do it, whereas I guess fish is like, well, what are you going to do?
Chelsea: Yeah.
Al: You're going to cook it.
Al: And then I guess there's kind of like small other bits and pieces like there's shops that you unlock and then the shops give you other things like you can, we've mentioned before you can unlock a bunch of things.
Al: You can add more animals, you can add more fishing, nut fishing, where you, you said.
Chelsea: Just the one additional spot.
Al: more farming plots, and then there's kind of like other forageables that you can create, like there's kind of plants that you can get to spawn in the, in this town centre and stuff like that.
Chelsea: And then there's a different, uh,
Chelsea: So I bought everything at the store because I thought it was an achievement.
Chelsea: It's not.
Al: Uh-huh.
Al: Oh, no.
Chelsea: Um, no, and then you can customise your dishes.
Chelsea: Um, I don't know if you saw that like the plates.
Al: Oh yes.
Al: I saw that.
Al: I did not care.
Chelsea: Yeah, I thought I had to do that too.
Chelsea: So I got all those.
Chelsea: And then, um, there's you could change your...
Al: Like time to change these dishes that I never look at.
Chelsea: Yeah, you can't even see them.
Chelsea: I think they're on display on the counter, but you don't actually see them when you're serving.
Al: Yeah, who's who's coming into the restaurant to look at the dishes?
Al: I'm coming in to cook and then cook and then run away and go do go watch my puppet show.
Chelsea: Yeah.
Chelsea: I'm going to the puppet show.
Chelsea: And yeah, you can change your apron and you can change the banners on the town and that's it.
Al: Sure.
Chelsea: Oh, and the door of the restaurant.
Chelsea: You could change the curtain.
Chelsea: So I changed mine to the chicken or the the delish can.
Chelsea: I thought it would add something, but it didn't.
Al: Okay, so that I think that's all of the mechanics.
Al: Do we want to talk about the story at all?
Chelsea: Um, I don't know how far you got.
Chelsea: How, like, where did you?
Al: I, I, I finished where we'd gather, we'd got tavers back.
Chelsea: where did you end?
Al: He was in chains and I was talking to him and I was like, I'm bored.
Chelsea: Yeah.
Chelsea: Are we okay to spoil all of it or do you want to save it?
Chelsea: For people to play on their own?
Al: All right, let's, I think we've talked about everything else.
Al: So this is your spoiler warning.
Al: If you don't, if you really care about the story of bistro, tune out now.
Al: There's nothing else after this other than our usual outro.
Al: So go away.
Al: All right, spoil away.
Chelsea: Okay, for the cool kids club.
Chelsea: So you unlock.
Chelsea: Um, the spicy caretaker.
Al: Wolves, basically.
Chelsea: Surprise, surprise, are the end boss.
Chelsea: Um, so basically everyone is,
Al: Yep.
Chelsea: Oh, why didn't you come rescue everyone like everyone else?
Chelsea: And she's like, ha ha.
Chelsea: the one that's actually causing all of this.
Chelsea: Um, and then she breaks out of her chain.
Al: Oh no.
Chelsea: So like, Callan, like the better caretaker puts Travers in chains because he doesn't trust him.
Chelsea: And then he's like, wait a minute, you're not so bad.
Al: Aha.
Chelsea: So once you unlock Travers, he does nothing except stand outside the restaurant and say, what can I help you with today, Chef?
Chelsea: And then he takes over the one mechanic that you don't want to do, and then you'll always get a perfect score for that one mechanic for the mini game.
Al: Yeah.
Chelsea: Um, as you go across all the regions, you come across the spirits, like the little animals.
Chelsea: Um, and then they kind of move into your town, they don't do anything.
Al: Yeah.
Chelsea: It's just to keep track of what you've seen and who's there.
Chelsea: I thought there was more combat caretakers, but there's just, there's Oishi, the umami one.
Chelsea: Um, there's Azur, which is a sweet one that is a pain to unlock because she won't come until you unlock the dough trees in the game.
Al: Yeah.
Al: Oh, see, I go out quite quickly because I was like, I was like definitely unlocking those.
Chelsea: Yeah.
Chelsea: So that's how you tame the fen pires, which is where you get a certain ingredient to make the treats.
Al: Yeah.
Chelsea: Um, and then there's kalid, the bitter one.
Chelsea: That the one I use the most.
Chelsea: Um, and then there's, um, Suna, who does the flavour enhancing crystals that I never used.
Chelsea: Again, if I unlocked her towards the middle of the game, I probably would have, but I had no idea what to do with her.
Chelsea: So she just was on my beach.
Chelsea: And then I unlocked Colsy, which is the frog in the salty region.
Chelsea: Um, like the day before the game is over and he, they don't do combat.
Chelsea: They just do different, like he collected the ingredients around your island for you.
Chelsea: so you don't have to do it.
Chelsea: Which kind of defeats the whole purpose if it's like you and you like doing the farming.
Al: Yeah.
Chelsea: But it's optional.
Al: Well, just to be clear, it's not like I was like, oh, let me get at that farming.
Al: It was more just like one of the, one of the things I really, one of the things I really like about farming games is the, the kind of mindless monotony of it, right?
Chelsea: Gotta get those grubs.
Chelsea: The routine of it.
Chelsea: Yeah, just go gather your stuff.
Chelsea: Anyway, so you have
Chelsea: Yeah, you come across the spicy caretaker who you just discover her in the desert and you're like, oh no, like come live with us.
Chelsea: And then it turns out she's the bad, the bad guy.
Chelsea: So then it unlocks.
Chelsea: The final boss takes place in the spicy region.
Chelsea: Um, and then you come across the spicy spirit.
Chelsea: Uh,
Al: Don't get excited, listeners, it's not that kind of spicy.
Chelsea: Spicy.
Chelsea: No, um, so the spicy cards, compliment the sweet cards to do the most damage in the game.
Al: Yeah.
Chelsea: Um, however, when you do your final battle with, Her name is Pakosh, the spicy.
Chelsea: No matter so the fight is really hard and she has cards that are up to 16 damage.
Chelsea: Yeah, so.
Al: I was fighting a hard with the 9.
Chelsea: Yeah, so the highest cards that you can get, like just base card is 10.
Al: Right.
Chelsea: Um, from what I've seen is like you can get 10, but you can add, you can supplement with the enhanced flavours in your deck.
Al: Yeah.
Chelsea: Um.
Chelsea: So for the final boss, you know how you have your magical raccoon flambé, like the one that does all the magic fire and stuff.
Al: Yeah.
Chelsea: She tries to go after her and then collapses. So then you, whatever caretaker you take, goes over to Pkosh, and you do the fight, and there's 3 different stages of the fight, like with every boss fight.
Chelsea: once you think you're done, you're not done.
Chelsea: Um, So then she summons all these monsters, I have completely off pairings so much she has, like, so you have to have every single flavour in your deck, and then towards the end, she summons the sun.
Chelsea: She's like, like, pulling down on the sun like a spirit bomb.
Al: Oh.
Al: How very how very hollow night?
Chelsea: Yeah, I was going to say, it's like a spirit bomb and Dragon Ball.
Chelsea: And then you have a 5 turn countdown and then you have to get her to 0 and those 5 turns, no matter how close to 0 you got, no matter what your health is, she she knocks you out.
Al: Oh no.
Al: Too stressful.
Al: No thank you.
Chelsea: So, yeah, so, no, the easy way to do it is you put her to sleep for 3 rounds and you just do as much damage as you can.
Chelsea: And then she'll be like, oh, I'm sorry guys. I'm sorry.
Chelsea: Can you guys forgive me?
Chelsea: And then it's like, yeah, no problem.
Chelsea: And then you get the credits.
Chelsea: And then you turn on the game, thinking there's a post game, and it's the same boss fight for eternity.
Al: Oh, no, they did the Zelda.
Chelsea: Yep, and it turns out, so.
Al: Were you never actually, you know, technically never defeat the final boss?
Al: I hate that so much.
Chelsea: Right.
Chelsea: Yeah, it pissed me off, to be quite honest.
Al: I'm so glad I never got to the end.
Al: I just find it so frustrating.
Chelsea: I was like, what do you mean?
Chelsea: So no, and then there even is like this weird dialogue that I feel like should not.
Chelsea: I shouldn't have been able to read this.
Chelsea: It basically says,
Chelsea: Just so you know, once we do this final mission, we can't do anything else.
Chelsea: And I'm like, can you have word?
Al: Oh.
Chelsea: Can you word this little difference?
Chelsea: Like, I feel like this is just a filler line, but it basically says, um, if this is our final mission, we have no reason to venture out anymore.
Chelsea: Um, but then that's it.
Al: Right.
Chelsea: You beat her?
Al: I see what they mean.
Chelsea: Yeah, yeah, but it just worded and this it even says like in red.
Al: It's basically like, it's basically, this is the final boss.
Chelsea: Yeah, it's like warning.
Al: Are you sure you want to play the blind of house?
Chelsea: Yeah.
Chelsea: It's literally in like yellow writing, morning, anything after this?
Al: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Chelsea: And I'm like, could we have done this in a different way? Like,
Chelsea: Totally sucked me out of it.
Chelsea: But yeah, so then basically for infinity, you're just doing the same, the boss fight.
Chelsea: Over and over again.
Chelsea: And there's no endgame or sorry, postgame.
Al: Yes.
Al: All right, well.
Chelsea: Yeah.
Chelsea: Like, well, that's about it.
Al: Yeah, not really sure where to go with this.
Al: It's an interesting game.
Chelsea: I love the, so I know that there are other card mechanic games like that that exist.
Chelsea: Um, I've just never played them myself, but I was talking to my husband and he's like, 0 yeah, there's other deck games like that.
Al: Mm-hmm.
Al: Yeah.
Chelsea: I love the idea.
Chelsea: I feel like there could be a lot of improve.
Al: Yes, it's not the best implemented of deck games.
Al: Yeah, I'm not a huge fan of how it works, but I mean, if you're interested in that.
Al: One, I would, one, I would recommend is ooblets.
Al: I don't know if you're aware of ooblets.
Chelsea: Okay.
Al: So it's it is also a farming game, where you farm creatures, these ooblets, and you gather them together and it's kind of like Pokemon in that where you're gathering together your creatures that you farm, and then you make a little team and the team, each different one gives you different cards.
Al: Um, so you, you, the cards that you get is based on the members of your team, your ooblets.
Chelsea: Okay.
Al: And then you, it kind of works in a similar sort of way.
Al: I think it's done a lot better, the actual battling and how you...
Al: I think the fact that you, it's very clear beforehand what your cards are going to be, right?
Al: Because you've been training up your ooblets and you have your list of cards and you kind of build them up to work together and it's not about...
Al: I think the typings ends up confusing this game more than helping.
Al: So, yeah.
Al: But if you're interested in that, I would, I would highly recommend Ublitz is a great game.
Chelsea: Yeah, if I could 100% this game.
Chelsea: Probably play anything at this point.
Al: Making it sound like a soul's like.
Chelsea: Yeah.
Chelsea: Okay, I don't, like, I don't like, I don't want to insult the, like, I, I appreciate companies that don't make the same game as everybody else.
Chelsea: I like when people try to implement something new.
Chelsea: That's not to say nothing could have been improved.
Al: Yeah.
Chelsea: But I do, I love the concept, but it could have, like, there could be some fine tuning to it.
Chelsea: Um, I don't know, has your, did your game crash at all?
Chelsea: Oh, okay, mine crashed twice.
Al: Nope.
Al: No, I didn't get any.
Chelsea: Um, I went in the Bistro Discord.
Chelsea: They have a page for bugs and reports and stuff and.
Al: Yeah.
Chelsea: Which is nice.
Chelsea: like they they seem pretty responsive.
Al: Yeah, I think I think you're right.
Al: I'm definitely open to people trying new things.
Al: And this is this is not one of those ones where I'm like, this is a bad game.
Al: I think it's it's not for me, but I could see how some people would really gel with it.
Chelsea: Yeah, and like, I think the fact for me, it definitely annoyed me, but I think the fact that I was disappointed that it ended so abruptly shows that I did want more.
Chelsea: So like if they were to do expand extra flavours.
Al: Yeah.
Chelsea: Although I don't know how that skill tree would work, like how that thing would work.
Al: No, no.
Al: No more flavours.
Chelsea: Okay.
Chelsea: Maybe.
Al: Don't do it.
Al: Don't don't tempt them.
Al: Don't give them ideas.
Chelsea: Yeah, maybe more regions or like a new recipe pack or something in the future would definitely, because this game's only been out, like, less than a month, I think.
Al: Yeah.
Chelsea: I think it came out early June.
Al: Yeah, it's very new.
Chelsea: So who knows where they're going to go with it, but I, I really, I appreciate, uh, developers that try something new.
Chelsea: Um, and I think that this was done well.
Al: Yep, agreed.
Chelsea: Like it could have been done better, but for an intro to it.
Al: Yeah, well, that's the thing.
Al: I mean, it looks great.
Al: It feels great.
Al: Everything kind of works the way it's meant to.
Al: I mean, you got 2 crashes, but that was 2 crashes over probably what, 20 hours of gameplay.
Chelsea: Yeah.
Al: Um, that's not bad.
Al: And it's kind of saving as you go.
Al: So it's not, you wouldn't lose a huge amount of time, I suspect. Yeah, there you go then.
Chelsea: No, I didn't lose anything, thankfully.
Chelsea: It's, I think it's the auto saves when you go to the restaurant and the tea house.
Al: Yeah.
Al: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Al: And every, I never even thought about this saving.
Al: It was it was so seamless with the auto saves.
Al: Um, and uh, and I, yeah, it, as a game, it is definitely well made, and they clearly have some very strong opinions on what they wanted from this.
Chelsea: Mm-hmm.
Al: It's just, it doesn't, it doesn't fit with what I want from this sort of thing.
Al: That's the problem.
Chelsea: Yeah, that's fair.
Chelsea: I found that it meshed very strangely.
Chelsea: Like to have.
Al: Also, also show your information in better ways.
Chelsea: Yeah.
Chelsea: Have someone in your town that you can have someone in your town that just sits in a little house that you can go have coffee with or someone in the tea house and be like, oh.
Al: That's the one thing.
Al: That's the one thing I would see.
Chelsea: Have you heard of this?
Chelsea: Or like, do you want to try out your cards?
Chelsea: Something like that.
Al: Like they could even just like, oh, you failed your 1st boss.
Al: Do you want to see the tutorial again?
Al: Yes, please.
Chelsea: Yeah, because even it's, you're too bad, so sad.
Chelsea: Like you, there's nowhere to go.
Al: Yeah.
Chelsea: And like you said, the week, like it's such a new game.
Chelsea: I was looking through the the guides and I'm like, well, looks like I'm going to be writing this.
Chelsea: But it made me a little more satisfied thinking, oh, well, I figured it out myself because I'm in the discord, people are asking for help, and I'm like, okay, it wasn't just me, that was confused about this.
Chelsea: So maybe there could be a patch where they add like something like, rewatch tutorial or like something like that.
Al: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Al: Yeah, maybe.
Chelsea: Yeah.
Al: All right, well, thank you, Chelsea, for joining me to talk about bistro.
Chelsea: Yes, thank you for the, for having me and for the recommendation.
Al: Definitely a lot less emotional and a more in-depth, I think.
Chelsea: These flames just got me so emotional.
Al: Is there anything you would like to share with the audio?
Chelsea: No, it was.
Chelsea: Uh, at this point I don't think so.
Chelsea: Play bistro if you want.
Al: Fair enough.
Chelsea: I think it's good.
Chelsea: Um, it is worth playing.
Chelsea: You don't need to 100% it like I did.
Chelsea: In fact, I advise against that because you might be disappointed at the end when you don't really feel any sort of accomplishment.
Al: But now you've got the number and it says gold.
Chelsea: I have my badges on Steam.
Chelsea: I do.
Chelsea: I saw...
Al: It's not, it's not a very,
Al: it's not it's not a common thing to have 100% of the game.
Chelsea: Well, I was looking through some of the accomplishments and even stuff that progresses the story.
Chelsea: It says like 3% of people have this achievement.
Al: Yeah.
Chelsea: I'm like, wow, a lot of people are not even finishing this game.
Al: A lot of people aren't even starting the game.
Chelsea: That's true.
Chelsea: Yeah, they bought it on a sale.
Chelsea: It just sits there for eternity.
Al: Yeah.
Al: All right.
Al: Well, you, listeners, uh, can find the podcast on Tumblr and on Blue Sky at THS Pod, you can send us feedback from our website, Harvardseason.club.
Al: What feedback do we want this time?
Al: Tell us your favourite flavour from the 6 flavours in bistro.
Al: We've got Umami, sour, bitter, salty, sweet and spicy, which is your favourite flavour.
Chelsea: Oh, for me?
Al: Well, you can, yeah, you can tell it's yours as well.
Chelsea: Sure, sweet, totally sweet.
Al: Yeah, obviously sweet.
Al: You can also, on our website, find links to everything to do with the podcast, including a link to our Patreon, patreon.com slash DHS pod, where you can get access to the Slack.
Al: What's been happening?
Chelsea: Talking about little house on the prairie.
Al: Oh, I was getting cancelled.
Al: That's what was happening.
Al: Because of my credits conversation.
Chelsea: Oh no.
Chelsea: No, I think I think you were right.
Al: Calm down.
Chelsea: Uh, we also talked about Winnie the Pooh.
Al: Don't say it.
Al: Don't get cancelled as well.
Chelsea: Oh.
Al: Don't get cancelled as well, Chelsea.
Chelsea: Okay, join for the Winnie the Pooh chat.
Al: Um, you also, on the Patreon, get access to our bonus episodes of the podcast.
Al: We just released one where me and Kevin were talking about the Nintendo direct from June to come and come and get that.
Al: I think that's everything.
Al: Thank you, Chelsea, again for joining me.
Chelsea: Thank you for having.
Al: Thank you listeners for listening, and until next time.
Al: Have a good Harvey.
Chelsea: Have a good harvest.
Theme Tune: The harvest season is created by Al McKinley with support from our patrons, including our pro farmers, Kevin Stewart and Elisa.
Theme Tune: Our art is done by Mike the Brave, and our music is done by Nick Burgess.
Theme Tune: Feel free to visit our website, harvestseason.club for show notes and links to things we discussed in this episode.
Chelsea: Are you going to play it anymore or are you just done?
Chelsea: On to something else.
Al: No.
Al: Min light peaks tomorrow.
Al: That's what my next next couple of weeks.